README.md, before:

- [Running Haystack using docker-compose](#running-haystack-using-docker-compose)
  * [Allocate memory to docker](#allocate-memory-to-docker)
  * [To start Haystack's traces, trends and service graph](#to-start-haystacks-traces-trends-and-service-graph)
  * [To start Zipkin (tracing) with Haystack's trends and service graph](#to-start-zipkin-tracing-with-haystacks-trends-and-service-graph)
  * [Note on composing components](#note-on-composing-components)

## Running Haystack using docker-compose

### Allocate memory to docker

Please check this [Stackoverflow answer](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/44533319/how-to-assign-more-memory-to-docker-container) 

To run all of haystack and its components, __it is suggested to change the default in docker settings from `2GiB` to `6GiB`__

### To start Haystack's traces, trends, service graph and adaptive-alerting

```
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml \
               -f traces/docker-compose.yml \
               -f trends/docker-compose.yml \
               -f service-graph/docker-compose.yml \
               -f adaptive-alerting/docker-compose.yml \
               -f example/docker-compose.yml up
```

The command above starts haystack components and also two sample web applications and haystack-agent.  Give a minute or two for the containers to come up and connect with each other. 

Haystack's UI will be available at http://localhost:8080 

Haystack's agent will be available in port 35000 in the host (i.e., localhost: 35000).

[Sample application](https://github.com/ExpediaDotCom/opentracing-spring-haystack-example) has a 'frontend' and 'backend'. The 'frontend' app will be available in at http://localhost:9090/hello. Sending a request to frontend will cause a call to the backend before fulfilling this request. 

Send some sample requests to the 'frontend' application by running 

```bash
run.sh
```

One can then see the traces, trends and a service-graph showing the relationship between the two applications in the UI.

### To start Zipkin (tracing) with Haystack's trends, service graph and adaptive-alerting

```
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml \
               -f zipkin/docker-compose.yml \
               -f trends/docker-compose.yml \
               -f adaptive-alerting/docker-compose.yml \
               -f service-graph/docker-compose.yml up
```

The command above starts [Pitchfork](https://github.com/HotelsDotCom/pitchfork) to proxy data to [Zipkin](https://github.com/openzipkin/) and Haystack. 

Give a minute or two for the containers to come up and connect with each other.  Once the stack is up, one can use the sample application @ https://github.com/openzipkin/brave-webmvc-example and send some sample data to see traces (from Zipkin), trends and service-graph in haystack-ui @ http://localhost:8080


### Note on composing components

Note the two commands above add a series of `docker-compose.yml` files. 

* Haystack needs at least one trace provider ( traces/docker-compose.yml or zipkin/docker-compose.yml ) and one trends provider ( trends/docker-compose.yml )
* One can remove adaptive-alerting/docker-compose.yml and service-graph/docker-compose.yml if those components are not required
* One can remove examples/docker-compose.yml and just have agent/docker-compose.yml to start your application integrated with haystack to send data
* If one is using Zipkin instrument app, use zipkin/docker-compose.yml to send data to the stack and use trends, service-graph and adaptive-alerting as needed
* Staring the stack just with with base docker-compose.yml, will start core services like kafka, cassandra and elastic-search along with haystack-ui with mock backend
```
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml up
```

### Note on Adaptive Alerting:
* Model Service that fetches anomaly detection model for a specific metric has been replaced with a mocked (using wiremock) to allow the stack to use a default model. Default detection model us [EWMA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/EWMA_chart) 
* Model Service is being refactored to allow better model selection and we will be releasing it in the next month or two
* Alert-Notification service that dispatches alerts to either email or slack is [commented in docker-compose](adaptive-alerting/docker-compose.yml#L100) file for local testing. You can uncomment it and provide slack_token or smtp credentials via environment.

Commit message:

Blobs example added (#20)
* Blobs example added

Added complete docker compose for running blobs example with all the required resources. Also made changes to the Readme for the same.

* Minor key change for blobs

* haystack-agent tag updated for blobs eg.

* Added haystack-ui env vars for blobs

* haystack-ui version upgrade

* Updated versions of apps

README.md, after:

- [Running Haystack using docker-compose](#running-haystack-using-docker-compose)
  * [Allocate memory to docker](#allocate-memory-to-docker)
  * [To start Haystack's traces, trends and service graph](#to-start-haystacks-traces-trends-and-service-graph)
  * [To start Zipkin (tracing) with Haystack's trends and service graph](#to-start-zipkin-tracing-with-haystacks-trends-and-service-graph)
  * [Note on composing components](#note-on-composing-components)

## Running Haystack using docker-compose

### Allocate memory to docker

Please check this [Stackoverflow answer](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/44533319/how-to-assign-more-memory-to-docker-container) 

To run all of haystack and its components, __it is suggested to change the default in docker settings from `2GiB` to `6GiB`__

### To start Haystack's traces, trends, service graph and adaptive-alerting

```
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml \
               -f traces/docker-compose.yml \
               -f trends/docker-compose.yml \
               -f service-graph/docker-compose.yml \
               -f adaptive-alerting/docker-compose.yml \
               -f example/traces/docker-compose.yml up
```

The command above starts haystack components and also two sample web applications and haystack-agent.  Give a minute or two for the containers to come up and connect with each other. 

Haystack's UI will be available at http://localhost:8080 

Haystack's agent will be available in port 35000 in the host (i.e., localhost: 35000).

[Sample application](https://github.com/ExpediaDotCom/opentracing-spring-haystack-example) has a 'frontend' and 'backend'. The 'frontend' app will be available in at http://localhost:9090/hello. Sending a request to frontend will cause a call to the backend before fulfilling this request. 

Send some sample requests to the 'frontend' application by running 

```bash
run.sh
```
One can then see the traces, trends and a service-graph showing the relationship between the two applications in the UI.

### To start Haystack's traces, blobs, trends, service graph and adaptive-alerting

```
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml \
               -f traces/docker-compose.yml \
               -f trends/docker-compose.yml \
               -f service-graph/docker-compose.yml \
               -f adaptive-alerting/docker-compose.yml \
               -f example/blobs/docker-compose.yml up
```

The command above starts haystack components and also two sample web applications and haystack-agent. Give a minute or two for the containers to come up and connect with each other.

Haystack's UI will be available at http://localhost:8080

Haystack's agent will be available in port 35000 in the host (i.e., localhost: 35000).

[Sample Application](https://github.com/ExpediaDotCom/haystack-blob-example) has a 'client' and a 'server'. The client interacts with the server listening on port `9090`. The client app will be available at `http://localhost:9091/displayMessage`. Sending a request to client will cause a call to the server before fulfilling this request.

Call the client using the link given above and then you will be able to see the traces, trends and a service-graph showing the relationship between the two applications in the UI.

Alternatively, you can also send some sample requests to the 'server' application by running 

```bash
run.sh
```
### To start Zipkin (tracing) with Haystack's trends, service graph and adaptive-alerting

```
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml \
               -f zipkin/docker-compose.yml \
               -f trends/docker-compose.yml \
               -f adaptive-alerting/docker-compose.yml \
               -f service-graph/docker-compose.yml up
```

The command above starts [Pitchfork](https://github.com/HotelsDotCom/pitchfork) to proxy data to [Zipkin](https://github.com/openzipkin/) and Haystack. 

Give a minute or two for the containers to come up and connect with each other.  Once the stack is up, one can use the sample application @ https://github.com/openzipkin/brave-webmvc-example and send some sample data to see traces (from Zipkin), trends and service-graph in haystack-ui @ http://localhost:8080


### Note on composing components

Note the two commands above add a series of `docker-compose.yml` files. 

* Haystack needs at least one trace provider ( traces/docker-compose.yml or zipkin/docker-compose.yml ) and one trends provider ( trends/docker-compose.yml )
* One can remove adaptive-alerting/docker-compose.yml and service-graph/docker-compose.yml if those components are not required
* One can remove `examples/traces/docker-compose.yml` or `examples/blobs/docker-compose.yml` and just have agent/docker-compose.yml to start your application integrated with haystack to send data
* If one is using Zipkin instrument app, use zipkin/docker-compose.yml to send data to the stack and use trends, service-graph and adaptive-alerting as needed
* Staring the stack just with with base docker-compose.yml, will start core services like kafka, cassandra and elastic-search along with haystack-ui with mock backend
```
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml up
```

### Note on Adaptive Alerting:
* Model Service that fetches anomaly detection model for a specific metric has been replaced with a mocked (using wiremock) to allow the stack to use a default model. Default detection model us [EWMA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/EWMA_chart) 
* Model Service is being refactored to allow better model selection and we will be releasing it in the next month or two
* Alert-Notification service that dispatches alerts to either email or slack is [commented in docker-compose](adaptive-alerting/docker-compose.yml#L100) file for local testing. You can uncomment it and provide slack_token or smtp credentials via environment.
